# Excel---Sales-Dashboard
This is a dynamic dashboard that not only shows your sales data in a nice way but also allows for real time updates and easy interaction.
We will be using 4 sheets for creating our dashboard --> sales data, pivot table, Sunburst and dashboard. 
The sales sheet contains the entire data set we will be working with. 
The pivot sheet will be used for creating pivot tables.
The Sunburst sheet is used to create Sunburst chart.
The dashboard sheet contains our sales dashboard.


Our First row in the dashboard shows Overall Sales, Profit($), Profit % and Units sold.  
Using INDEX MATCH function, I have showed the Top selling product in the dashboard.
 
Next I have created a stacked column chart to visualize our sales and profit Trend over the months.It is a great way to track how your profits contribute to the overall sales
performance. 

Next is a bar chart which will show sales generated by each customer using customer ID and sales data. This chart along with the scroll bar beautifully shows us how much each customer contributes to our sales. the chart not only makes our dashboard Lively but also give us a detailed look at each customer's impact. 
A scroll bar is created using developer tab (click insert and select scroll bar
under form controls now right click the scroll bar). The page change value is five which will present details of five customers at a time on the screen. Our objective is to carve out a data set of five customers
from the entire list of 150 customers which can dynamically adjust to scroll bar changes. I used count, minimum and offset functions to achieve this.

Next one in our Dashboard is donut chart showing sales percentage from different countries. This chart provides a nice way to understand the distribution of sales across Globe.

Next is a tree map chart showing breakdown of sales percentages by different segments.

The next chart is a line chart showing profit generated over months.

A pie chart is used to show units sold percentage by country.

This dashboard contains slicers using which we can quickly filter data and make our dashboard more Dynamic. We have two slicer, one for the year and other for the month.
When you click on the year tab buttons, we will notice that all the charts are nicely responding to the slicer.

The last exciting part is a Sunburst chart illustrating the sales generated by each product each year, a visually stunning way to represent data at multiple levels. 
